Introduction
	
	Machine learning (ML) is becoming more popular with large companies especially insurance companies in making things more automated, easier to use, and reducing budget cost for many aspects throughout the company. Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming the next milestone for improving the business models of many large organizations. Corporate investment in AI is predicted to triple in 2018, becoming a $100 billion market by 2025. Machine learning is allowing companies to expand their top-line growth while improving employee engagement and increasing customer satisfaction. Machine learning is the science of getting computers to learn and act like humans do, and improve their learning over time in autonomous fashion, by feeding them data and information in the form of observation and real-world interaction. Most people know and understand what AI is and machine learning is basically AI in the machines at a workplace. You may wonder how machine learning can benefit an insurance company such as Cigna or Aetna. The reality of this is that machine learning can benefit an insurance company in many ways such as personalizing customer satisfaction, big data, improving customer loyalty and retention, hiring better employees, automating finance, measuring brand exposure, detecting fraud, predictive maintenance, and smoother supply chains. As you can see machine learning has many benefits to an insurance company and many other smaller companies as well. However, even though machine learning seems like the best new way to cut budget costs and improve customer satisfaction, there are some problems that can happen and having an actual human being is never easily replaceable. In conclusion, machine learning is a the use of AI in machines in the workplace and is very complicated on a developers level, it can benefit a large or small cooperation in multiple ways and also cuts costs, and even though machine learning seems like the newest best way to improve a company, it has its faults and problems.

(3 topics to talk about in 3 paragraphs: How machine learning works, How machine learning can benefit companies, and some problems machine learning could pose.)

Paragraph 1: Machine Learning, How It Works.

	Machine learning may seem like an easy concept to understand, but it is much more complicated on the developers side on how to actually code and implement it. At a lower level machine learning is just a very complicated set of algorithms that are designed to replicate human intelligence and behavior. There are many different types of algorithms with hundreds of them published each day and they are all usually grouped by either a learning style or function. Regardless of learning style or function all combinations of machine learning algorithms consist of three basic concepts. The first concept is representation which is a set of classifiers or the language that a computer understands. The second is evaluation which is objective or scoring function. The third is optimization which is usually a search method, usually the highest scoring classifier. The main goal of machine learning algorithms is to generalize and successfully understand data that it has never seen before. Here is an example of a general decision tree model that can be correlated with machine learning: 

The dots will be moving in this example starting from the top and going down all the way to the bottom. Basically, the dots is new data and it is always flowing and ingesting new data and interpreting it in different ways. There are many different approaches to getting machines and devices to learn, from using basic algorithms and decision trees to layers of artificial natural networks. These all change depending on what task your trying to accomplish and the type and amount of data you have available. The main driver to machine learning is when people are trying to work on real application's which then drives progress into the field. Sometimes new algorithms are created by accident too. A good example would be in 2008 Hulu found that that they get their best results when combining their learners with the other team's learners, ending in and improved recommendation algorithm. Most people just think that machine learning is solely based off of automation. However, if you think like that it will not end up good because the most important concept to machine learning is that it can intake new data and does not have follow any rules or a certain automation process. This new concept is hard to grasp because most programmers and developers are always thinking of static ideas and results that never change. If you think about it like this it can be used as an important tool to help humans make critical decisions and enhance human's abilities to solve problems. Once developers and programmers understand this new concept, many possibilities open up for companies that want to implement machine learning. 

Paragraph 2: Machine Learning Benefits in The Workplace
	There are many benefits from using machine learning in the workplace, whether it be for large cooperation's or small businesses. One of the biggest reasons machine learning can help in a big company such as an insurance company is personalizing customer service. One of the biggest costs in operating a huge insurance company is hiring agents that can call people to discuss claims, sell claims, or answer the phone to engage in customer service. The goal of machine learning is to replace these people's jobs with just one system. This would cut costs significantly and ensure a better customer service experience because the machines would not make any mistakes and be much faster and more efficient, all at half the cost. By combining historical customer service data, natural language processing, and algorithms that continuously learn from interactions, customers can ask questions and get high-quality answers. Studies show that already 44% of customers prefer chatbots to humans for customer relations. If something goes wrong customer service representatives can step in to handle exceptions, all while the machine learning algorithms are watching and learning from the interaction. Another great way machine learning can help companies is aid in hiring new people. Corporate jobs look at thousands of resumes every week and recruiters say that this is the most tedious and difficult part of their job. With machine learning implemented software could look at twice as many resumes in half of the time and provide better results. Software also does not have any biased towards the hiring process and can combat human bias even further by automatically flagging biased language in job descriptions, detecting highly qualified candidates who might have been overlooked because they didn't fit the traditional expectations. Another great use for machine learning and one of the biggest ways for a large insurance to cut costs would be to automate financing. Corporate accountants average salary is about $75,000 a year and machine learning can replace that job and save the company millions if not billions of dollars. By monitoring existing processes and learning to recognize different situations, AI significantly increases the number of invoices that can be matches automatically. This lets organizations reduce the amount of work outsourced to services centers and frees up finance staff to focus more important strategic tasks. Another great way to improve a workplace with machine learning is detecting fraud. Fraud is a big issue in companies today and each year a typical organization loses 5% of revenue each year due to fraud. Machine learning can help detect and prevent fraudulent transactions in real time, even for previously unknown types of fraud. Machine learning can help with this by tracking historical transactions, social network information, and other external sources of data. For example, banks can use historical data to build a systems to recognize fraudulent behavior. They can discover many things such as suspicious transactions and suspicious payments between certain users. This type of machine learning can help with many real world issues such as cybersecurity and tax evasion and do it better as the human eye makes mistakes often. Finally another great benefit to using machine learning in the workplace is to improve customer loyalty and retention. If a customer has a high risk of leaving companies can mine customer transactions, actions, and social data to help mitigate this risk. This will help the company to determine the next best action to help persuade these customers to stay and not lose a loyal customer. Many companies such as cell phone carriers are already using these methods to help target customers for specialized offers for a certain customer. As you can see there are many ways that machine learning can help companies whether it be security risks or customer service. 
Paragraph 3: Machine Learning Downfalls
	Even though machine learning has so many great benefits, there are some problems that it can bring as every technology has. One of the biggest setbacks in using machine learning is that some companies do not have enough data to build a reliable system or even if they do the data is not easily accessible  or in a usable format. In order for an organization to use machine learning they must prepare the data so it is ready for automation. Another problem is prioritization; with such high potential and ideas, it can be hard to know where to start. With machine learning becoming more and more popular software providers are starting to offer predefined solutions enables with machine learning right out of the box. Some providers even have their own complete systems companies can start using, even with a graphical user interface. Another problem companies can face when using machine learning is when the customer would rather speak to a human being. With replacing humans for customer service sometimes it can hard to interact with a machine or an automated voice. This can easily fixed by offering a human customer service agent to speak after the customer has gotten frustrated with the automated voice system. Lastly, machine learning poses a threat to many employees and their roles. With the AI being so advanced many employees might be out of a job, especially entry level accountants, because their job is so repetitive it can be easily automated. For most employees though it will be an opportunity to reduce tedious tasks and do more, but it is vital that employees have incentives to ensure the success of machine learning initiatives. Because of the AI's power to get insights from customer data, organizations need to implement procedures to override the systems in case of a catastrophic failure. Even though there are some problems that machine learning can pose, the benefits of these systems considerably outweigh the problems.
Conclusion
	Machine learning in the workplace can be a very profitable method to help a huge organization operate more efficiently. Whether it be helping the company cut costs by replacing an accountants job, to improving the customer experience by scanning historical records to help customers. However, machine learning does have its problems and it is important to have experts that can help fix an error in the system or a procedure set in place to override the machine learning system in case of a problem. Overall though machine learning in the workplace can benefit companies more and will be the smartest decision to cut costs and improve a business.

